#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass mwart
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
theorems-ams
eqs-within-sections
figs-within-sections
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\begin_local_layout
Format 60
CiteEngine authoryear
Citep*[][]
Citet*[][]
Citealt*[][]
Citealp*[][]
Citeauthor*[]
citeyear[]
citeyearpar[][]
nocite
End
\end_local_layout
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type authoryear
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Machine Learning and Application in Multi-Criteria Decision Analysis
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
La Minh Hoang
\end_layout

\begin_layout Right Address
University of Zielona Gora
\end_layout

\begin_layout Right Address
Faculty of Mathematics, Computer Science and Econometrics
\end_layout

\begin_layout Right Address
Poland
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset toc
LatexCommand tableofcontents

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Newpage pagebreak
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
INTRODUCTION
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Multi-criteria Decision Analysis (MCDA) which also can be call as "Multiple
 Criteria Decision-Making" or "Multicriteria Decision Aiding'' in English
 or "Analyse Multicritère" in French is an exciting field which has seen
 many achievements including increasing number of research papers, books,
 and theoretical over the years since the 60s
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "pugnaire1992multicriteria,roy2005paradigms"

\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For many decision makers, MCDA is an excellent tool in getting comprehensive
 insight information when solving a decision problem especially when there
 are many different factors are taken into account
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "pugnaire1992multicriteria,roy2005paradigms"

\end_inset

.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In this thesis, we will show to the readers how to incorporate Machine Learning
 in MCDA.
 Thus, to prove the feasibility of this incorporation; first, we will point
 out some difficulties which MCDA has when dealing with complicated decision
 problems, especially problems that repeat many times.
 Then we will see what advantages of Machine Learning can offer to solve
 these difficulties.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The readers should notice that the structure of this thesis is not linear,
 readers should not only read from the beginning to the end of the paper.
 Instead, there will be many instructive lines of texts which can act as
 "signpost" or a guide of how to find the next information which can clarify
 the section that the readers are reading.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To make more sense to the readers, the contents of this thesis will be structure
d as follow:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In the first chapter, readers will be greeted with basic concepts of MCDA
 and what we should expect from MCDA when using it to solve a decision problem.
 Also, we will see what kind of difficulties and associated decision problem
 in which Machine Learning is the solution.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In the next chapter, we will show the concept of Analytic Hierarchy Process
 (AHP) which is an MCDA method to derive priority or ratio scales from paired
 comparisons.
 Also, we will explain to the readers that why this method is a suitable
 example in proving that Machine Learning is the right solution for the
 problems mentioned in chapter one.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For the third chapter, we will focus on the detail of Machine Learning,
 especially Artificial Neural Network (ANN) and Adaptive Neuro - Fuzzy Inference
 System (ANFIS).
 ANN and ANFIS are two methods of Machine Learning which are the potential
 candidates for incorporating with MCDA.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Then, in the fourth chapter, we will design a system in which Machine Learning
 will play a major role in the MCDA process.
 With this system are two study cases which will show how effective Machine
 Learning can be in improving the decision making process.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Finally, we will conclude the thesis with some conclusions which summarise
 the points of this thesis.
 Because the study for this thesis still in the early stage, we will also
 propose some suggestions for future improvements.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Multi-criteria Decision Analysis
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Chapter 1 goes here.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
The Method of AHP (Analytic Hierarchy Process)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Chapter 2 goes here.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Soft Computing with Artificial Neuron Network and Adaptive Neuro - Fuzzy
 Inference System
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Chapter 3 goes here.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Case Studies
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Chapter 4 goes here.
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "roy2005paradigms"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
CONCLUSIONS
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset FloatList figure

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset FloatList table

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset bibtex
LatexCommand bibtex
bibfiles "master_thesis"
options "plainnat"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
